honey mmud is in Rafa in southern Gaza
for us and honey we'll get to the
growing issue of famine there in a
moment but first can you just tell us
about Israel's focus on Rafa right
[Music]
now yes well in overnight and in fact it
started at early hours of last night in
the evening hours with the heavy
artillery Shilling of the eastern part
of Rafa City and finishing at about
midnight with massive air strikes on
both different locations in Eastern
rafah and in the central part of rafah
City very crowded and densely populated
two areas the one in EAS Raa residential
home full of displaced Palestinians
including the owner the local residents
and the owner of the Residential
Building who has been uh Sheltering
helping Sheltering people who've been
displaced from the northern part and
Gaza City and from Han Unice 13 people
have been killed than tens of other
injuries different injuries were
reported to a Nar Hospital in central ra
the other air strikes targeted a
residential home in Al Janina District
that's a central part of RA City and
this is not the first time Al Jan had
been in fact since the beginning of the
for being repeatedly targeted more
residential homes inside this District
have been destroyed
compared in more people have been killed
in heavy artill and more air strike
we're looking at a total of 15 people
but the fact that we're seeing an
intense bombing Camp campaign across RAF
City just an indication and very
consistent with the uh Israeli defense
minister statement of expansion the
military operations into Rafa City yeah
and uh honey as we heard the un's
described Rafa as a pressure cooker of
Despair but can you just try and tell us
what that actually looks and feels like
as you are on the ground
there yes well not only we're looking at
an overcrowded area right now but
largely here the 1.9 million displaced
Palestinians are going hungry here in
this part of of the Gaza Strip uh people
entire families that just go by there
day without eating any any food for days
no meals whatsoever we have a children
roaming the
roaming streets that are filled with
rubble just searching for scraps of food
we have the the the the the problem of
people who are experiencing Health
complications unable to get the the
necessary the necessary uh portion of
food that it's needed to sustain their
health and to help them combat these
difficult conditions among all of this
there's the vulnerable group of children
and women and those are pregnant or
breastfeeding they lack the resource and
nutritional elements that are needed to
keep them sustaining in fact according
to the UN report on the international
recognized five phase scale of food
crisis we're looking here at the quarter
quarter of the our of the people in Gaza
that's almost half a million people are
at the at Phase number five which is a
catastrophic level we're looking at
massive starvation and it's just very
unfortunate to say that this is how food
is being Whi and us it against civilian
population honey as always we really do
appreciate your work for us honey mm for
us and Rafa and Southern Gaza